README.md, before:

# vue-dawa [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/AncaIO/vue-dawa.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/AncaIO/vue-dawa)

This component allows you to create an address-autocomplete using Danmarks Adressers WEB API in Vue 2 applications. 

It relies heavily on https://github.com/DanmarksAdresser/dawa-autocomplete2, but uses the axios library instead of fetch for making requests and it is fully "vue-ified".

## [Demo](https://vue-dawa.anca.io) 

## Installation

```bash
npm install --save vue-dawa
```

## Usage
Make sure to import the component: 
```javascript
  import VueDawa from 'vue-dawa'
```
Add it to your components' components: 
```javascript
 export default {
  components: {
    VueDawa
  }
}
```
In your template: 
```vuejs
<vue-dawa @select="selectItem($event, 'yourAddressObject')"
  :val="yourAddressObject.oneLineAddress"
  :showMax="5"
  placeholder="Your Placeholder"
  containerId="your-container"
  fieldId="your-field-id"
  fieldName="your-field-name">
  <label slot="label-top" for="field-2">Your label</label>
</vue-dawa>
```
In your component's data, you will need to provide `yourAddressObject`.
```javascript
  data () {
    yourAddressObject: {
      oneLineAddress: ''
    }
  }
```
You will also need to define a method for modifying the selected address to your needs - if that is desired.
```javascript
// here the event payload is of the type "adresse"
translateData (address) {
  if (!address || !address.data) {
    return
  }
  return {
    id: address.data.id,
    street: address.data.vejnavn,
    streetNumber: address.data.husnr,
    floor: address.data.etage,
    door: address.data.dør,
    zipCode: address.data.postnr,
    city: address.data.postnrnavn,
    oneLineAddress: address.tekst
  }
}
```
If you will create multiple fields in the same component, you might want to handle the select event in a manner that will allow you to update whichever address object without writing custom handlers for each.
A quick example: 
```javascript
  // handle the select event emitted by vue-dawa
  selectItem (payload, objectName) {
   this.$set(this, objectName, this.translateData(payload))
  } 
```
## Events 
   | Event                  | Value                       |
   | ---------------------- |------------------------------------------| 
   | `select`                 | `Object` - the raw DAWA address object   | 
   | `listHeightUpdated`      | `double` - current height of results `ul`| 
   | `inputChanged`           | `String` - search terms changed          |  
   
## Props
|Prop|Required|Type|Purpose|
|---|---|---|---|
|`placeholder`|no|`String`| Displays a placeholder in the input field|
|`containerId`|yes|`String`| Provides the `id` attribute of the component wrapper and is used in computing a unique id for the list of results used in height detection|
|`containerClasses`|no|`String` or `Object`| Custom styling|
|`fieldId`|yes|`String`|When combined with a label, improves accessibility|
|`fieldClasses`|no|`String` or `Object`| Custom styling|
|`fieldName`|no|`String`|Can be useful in form validation|
|`listClasses`|no|`String` or `Object`| Custom styling|
|`listItemClasses`|no|`String` or `Object`| Custom styling. Active class is handled by the component already, but feel free to play.|
|`val`|no|`String`|Pre-populates the input field with an initial value|
|`addressId`|no|`String`| A DAWA address id. If provided, it will perform an automatic search on `created` and populate the field with the found address. It will also emit the `selected` event.|
|`options`|no|`Object`, see default options below | Configuring the DAWA service. NOTE: The component was only intended for full addresses, but it should work with other types. See DAWA's docs for more info|       
|`showMax`| no, but you might want it set| `Number`| Limits the number of visible results|
|`resultsListStyle`|no|`Object`|Provide style for results list|
|`listScrollBehavior`|no|`Object`|Define the scroll behavior for the results list, to be used by [`Element.scrollIntoView()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/scrollIntoView)
## Default options prop
```javascript 
{
  params: {},
  minLength: 2, // would leave this alone if I were you, it can lead to wonky behavior.
  retryDelay: 500,
  type: 'adresse',
  baseUrl: 'https://dawa.aws.dk',
  adgangsadresserOnly: false,
  stormodtagerpostnumre: true,
  supplerendebynavn: true,
  fuzzy: true,
}
```
## Overflow:hidden nuissance
If vue-dawa is placed in a container (or descendant of a container) with `overflow: hidden`, the list of results will be cut off. 
There is no easy or nice fix for this, unfortunately. 

What you CAN do, is leverage the `listHeightUpdated` event, which will pass to you the height of the list of results. 

You can use this height to compute a min-height property on the container in question or child of it, and give it a transition on the height for a smoother change. 
It's not flawless, but it will allow you to use the component in a container with `overflow: hidden`.  

## Styling 
You can require the default style: 
```javascript
require('vue-dawa/dist/vue-dawa.min.css')
```
or customize the css yourself. Remember you can add custom classes to all the elements of the componets. 

For the results list, you can also provide styling options via the `resultsListStyle` prop. For instance, if you want to control the scroll of the list, this property's value could be: 
```vue
<vue-dawa 
... other props
:resultsListStyle = "{
  maxHeight: '200px',
  overflowY: 'auto',
  overFlowX: 'hidden'
}"/>
```
Here's a starting point for tweaking the default css.
```css
    .autocomplete-container {
        /* relative position for at de absolut positionerede forslag får korrekt placering.*/
        position: relative;
        width: 100%;
        max-width: 30em;
    }

    .autocomplete-container input {
        /* Både input og forslag får samme bredde som omkringliggende DIV */
        width: 100%;
        box-sizing: border-box;
        margin-bottom: 5px;
    }

    .dawa-autocomplete-suggestions {
        position: absolute;
        z-index: 9999;
        width: 100%;
        margin: 0.15em 0 0 0;
        padding: 0;
        text-align: left;
        border-radius: 0.3125em;
        background: #fcfcfc;
        box-shadow: 0 0.0625em 0.15625em rgba(0,0,0,.15);
        box-sizing: border-box;
    }

    .dawa-autocomplete-suggestions .dawa-autocomplete-suggestion {
        margin: 0;
        list-style: none;
        cursor: pointer;
        padding: 0.4em 0.6em;
        color: #333;
        border: 0.0625em solid #ddd;
        border-bottom-width: 0;
    }

    .dawa-autocomplete-suggestions .dawa-autocomplete-suggestion:first-child {
        border-top-left-radius: inherit;
        border-top-right-radius: inherit;
    }

    .dawa-autocomplete-suggestions .dawa-autocomplete-suggestion:last-child {
        border-bottom-left-radius: inherit;
        border-bottom-right-radius: inherit;
        border-bottom-width: 0.0625em;
    }

    .dawa-autocomplete-suggestions .dawa-autocomplete-suggestion.active,
    .dawa-autocomplete-suggestions .dawa-autocomplete-suggestion:hover {
        background: #f0f0f0;
        color: #333;
    }
```

Commit message:

Temporarily add notes on Vue handling, IE compatibility

README.md, after:

# vue-dawa [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/AncaIO/vue-dawa.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/AncaIO/vue-dawa)

This component allows you to create an address-autocomplete using Danmarks Adressers WEB API in Vue 2 applications. 

It relies heavily on https://github.com/DanmarksAdresser/dawa-autocomplete2, but uses the axios library instead of fetch for making requests and it is fully "vue-ified".

## [Demo](https://vue-dawa.anca.io) 

## Installation

```bash
npm install --save vue-dawa
```
https://cli.vuejs.org/guide/build-targets.html#library
#### Note on IE Compatibility

In lib mode, the public path is dynamically determined based on the URL from which the main js file is loaded (to enable dynamic assets loading). However, this feature requires document.currentScript support, which is missing in IE. So it's recommended to include the current-script-polyfill in the final web page before the library is imported, if IE support is a requirement.

#### Note on Vue Dependency

In lib mode, Vue is externalized. This means the bundle will not bundle Vue even if your code imports Vue. If the lib is used via a bundler, it will attempt to load Vue as a dependency through the bundler; otherwise, it falls back to a global Vue variable.


## Usage
Make sure to import the component: 
```javascript
  import VueDawa from 'vue-dawa'
```
Add it to your components' components: 
```javascript
 export default {
  components: {
    VueDawa
  }
}
```
In your template: 
```vuejs
<vue-dawa @select="selectItem($event, 'yourAddressObject')"
  :val="yourAddressObject.oneLineAddress"
  :showMax="5"
  placeholder="Your Placeholder"
  containerId="your-container"
  fieldId="your-field-id"
  fieldName="your-field-name">
  <label slot="label-top" for="field-2">Your label</label>
</vue-dawa>
```
In your component's data, you will need to provide `yourAddressObject`.
```javascript
  data () {
    yourAddressObject: {
      oneLineAddress: ''
    }
  }
```
You will also need to define a method for modifying the selected address to your needs - if that is desired.
```javascript
// here the event payload is of the type "adresse"
translateData (address) {
  if (!address || !address.data) {
    return
  }
  return {
    id: address.data.id,
    street: address.data.vejnavn,
    streetNumber: address.data.husnr,
    floor: address.data.etage,
    door: address.data.dør,
    zipCode: address.data.postnr,
    city: address.data.postnrnavn,
    oneLineAddress: address.tekst
  }
}
```
If you will create multiple fields in the same component, you might want to handle the select event in a manner that will allow you to update whichever address object without writing custom handlers for each.
A quick example: 
```javascript
  // handle the select event emitted by vue-dawa
  selectItem (payload, objectName) {
   this.$set(this, objectName, this.translateData(payload))
  } 
```
## Events 
   | Event                  | Value                       |
   | ---------------------- |------------------------------------------| 
   | `select`                 | `Object` - the raw DAWA address object   | 
   | `listHeightUpdated`      | `double` - current height of results `ul`| 
   | `inputChanged`           | `String` - search terms changed          |  
   
## Props
|Prop|Required|Type|Purpose|
|---|---|---|---|
|`placeholder`|no|`String`| Displays a placeholder in the input field|
|`containerId`|yes|`String`| Provides the `id` attribute of the component wrapper and is used in computing a unique id for the list of results used in height detection|
|`containerClasses`|no|`String` or `Object`| Custom styling|
|`fieldId`|yes|`String`|When combined with a label, improves accessibility|
|`fieldClasses`|no|`String` or `Object`| Custom styling|
|`fieldName`|no|`String`|Can be useful in form validation|
|`listClasses`|no|`String` or `Object`| Custom styling|
|`listItemClasses`|no|`String` or `Object`| Custom styling. Active class is handled by the component already, but feel free to play.|
|`val`|no|`String`|Pre-populates the input field with an initial value|
|`addressId`|no|`String`| A DAWA address id. If provided, it will perform an automatic search on `created` and populate the field with the found address. It will also emit the `selected` event.|
|`options`|no|`Object`, see default options below | Configuring the DAWA service. NOTE: The component was only intended for full addresses, but it should work with other types. See DAWA's docs for more info|       
|`showMax`| no, but you might want it set| `Number`| Limits the number of visible results|
|`resultsListStyle`|no|`Object`|Provide style for results list|
|`listScrollBehavior`|no|`Object`|Define the scroll behavior for the results list, to be used by [`Element.scrollIntoView()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/scrollIntoView)
## Default options prop
```javascript 
{
  params: {},
  minLength: 2, // would leave this alone if I were you, it can lead to wonky behavior.
  retryDelay: 500,
  type: 'adresse',
  baseUrl: 'https://dawa.aws.dk',
  adgangsadresserOnly: false,
  stormodtagerpostnumre: true,
  supplerendebynavn: true,
  fuzzy: true,
}
```
## Overflow:hidden nuissance
If vue-dawa is placed in a container (or descendant of a container) with `overflow: hidden`, the list of results will be cut off. 
There is no easy or nice fix for this, unfortunately. 

What you CAN do, is leverage the `listHeightUpdated` event, which will pass to you the height of the list of results. 

You can use this height to compute a min-height property on the container in question or child of it, and give it a transition on the height for a smoother change. 
It's not flawless, but it will allow you to use the component in a container with `overflow: hidden`.  

## Styling 
You can require the default style: 
```javascript
require('vue-dawa/dist/vue-dawa.min.css')
```
or customize the css yourself. Remember you can add custom classes to all the elements of the componets. 

For the results list, you can also provide styling options via the `resultsListStyle` prop. For instance, if you want to control the scroll of the list, this property's value could be: 
```vue
<vue-dawa 
... other props
:resultsListStyle = "{
  maxHeight: '200px',
  overflowY: 'auto',
  overFlowX: 'hidden'
}"/>
```
Here's a starting point for tweaking the default css.
```css
    .autocomplete-container {
        /* relative position for at de absolut positionerede forslag får korrekt placering.*/
        position: relative;
        width: 100%;
        max-width: 30em;
    }

    .autocomplete-container input {
        /* Både input og forslag får samme bredde som omkringliggende DIV */
        width: 100%;
        box-sizing: border-box;
        margin-bottom: 5px;
    }

    .dawa-autocomplete-suggestions {
        position: absolute;
        z-index: 9999;
        width: 100%;
        margin: 0.15em 0 0 0;
        padding: 0;
        text-align: left;
        border-radius: 0.3125em;
        background: #fcfcfc;
        box-shadow: 0 0.0625em 0.15625em rgba(0,0,0,.15);
        box-sizing: border-box;
    }

    .dawa-autocomplete-suggestions .dawa-autocomplete-suggestion {
        margin: 0;
        list-style: none;
        cursor: pointer;
        padding: 0.4em 0.6em;
        color: #333;
        border: 0.0625em solid #ddd;
        border-bottom-width: 0;
    }

    .dawa-autocomplete-suggestions .dawa-autocomplete-suggestion:first-child {
        border-top-left-radius: inherit;
        border-top-right-radius: inherit;
    }

    .dawa-autocomplete-suggestions .dawa-autocomplete-suggestion:last-child {
        border-bottom-left-radius: inherit;
        border-bottom-right-radius: inherit;
        border-bottom-width: 0.0625em;
    }

    .dawa-autocomplete-suggestions .dawa-autocomplete-suggestion.active,
    .dawa-autocomplete-suggestions .dawa-autocomplete-suggestion:hover {
        background: #f0f0f0;
        color: #333;
    }
```
